docs/sources/commandline/command/build.rst, before:

:title: Build Command
:description: Build a new image from the Dockerfile passed via stdin
:keywords: build, docker, container, documentation

================================================
``build`` -- Build a container from a Dockerfile
================================================

::

    Usage: docker build [OPTIONS] PATH | URL | -
    Build a new container image from the source code at PATH
      -t="": Tag to be applied to the resulting image in case of success.
      -q=false: Suppress verbose build output.
    When a single Dockerfile is given as URL, then no context is set. When a git repository is set as URL, the repository is used as context


Examples
--------

.. code-block:: bash

    docker build .

| This will read the Dockerfile from the current directory. It will also send any other files and directories found in the current directory to the docker daemon.
| The contents of this directory would be used by ADD commands found within the Dockerfile.
| This will send a lot of data to the docker daemon if the current directory contains a lot of data.
| If the absolute path is provided instead of '.', only the files and directories required by the ADD commands from the Dockerfile will be added to the context and transferred to the docker daemon.
|

.. code-block:: bash

    docker build - < Dockerfile

| This will read a Dockerfile from Stdin without context. Due to the lack of a context, no contents of any local directory will be sent to the docker daemon.
| ADD doesn't work when running in this mode due to the absence of the context, thus having no source files to copy to the container.


.. code-block:: bash

    docker build github.com/creack/docker-firefox

| This will clone the github repository and use it as context. The Dockerfile at the root of the repository is used as Dockerfile.
| Note that you can specify an arbitrary git repository by using the 'git://' schema.

Commit message:

Add no cache for docker build
Add a new flag to disable the image cache when building images.
Upstream-commit: 3a123bc479457c4dfa14e39b7c42d9a9dccf8c32
Component: engine

docs/sources/commandline/command/build.rst, after:

:title: Build Command
:description: Build a new image from the Dockerfile passed via stdin
:keywords: build, docker, container, documentation

================================================
``build`` -- Build a container from a Dockerfile
================================================

::

    Usage: docker build [OPTIONS] PATH | URL | -
    Build a new container image from the source code at PATH
      -t="": Tag to be applied to the resulting image in case of success.
      -q=false: Suppress verbose build output.
      -no-cache: Do not use the cache when building the image.
    When a single Dockerfile is given as URL, then no context is set. When a git repository is set as URL, the repository is used as context


Examples
--------

.. code-block:: bash

    docker build .

| This will read the Dockerfile from the current directory. It will also send any other files and directories found in the current directory to the docker daemon.
| The contents of this directory would be used by ADD commands found within the Dockerfile.
| This will send a lot of data to the docker daemon if the current directory contains a lot of data.
| If the absolute path is provided instead of '.', only the files and directories required by the ADD commands from the Dockerfile will be added to the context and transferred to the docker daemon.
|

.. code-block:: bash

    docker build - < Dockerfile

| This will read a Dockerfile from Stdin without context. Due to the lack of a context, no contents of any local directory will be sent to the docker daemon.
| ADD doesn't work when running in this mode due to the absence of the context, thus having no source files to copy to the container.


.. code-block:: bash

    docker build github.com/creack/docker-firefox

| This will clone the github repository and use it as context. The Dockerfile at the root of the repository is used as Dockerfile.
| Note that you can specify an arbitrary git repository by using the 'git://' schema.
