docs/sources/api/docker_remote_api.rst, before:

:title: Remote API
:description: API Documentation for Docker
:keywords: API, Docker, rcli, REST, documentation

.. COMMENT use http://pythonhosted.org/sphinxcontrib-httpdomain/ to
.. document the REST API.

=================
Docker Remote API
=================


1. Brief introduction
=====================

- The Remote API is replacing rcli
- By default the Docker daemon listens on unix:///var/run/docker.sock and the client must have root access to interact with the daemon
- If a group named *docker* exists on your system, docker will apply ownership of the socket to the group
- The API tends to be REST, but for some complex commands, like attach
  or pull, the HTTP connection is hijacked to transport stdout stdin
  and stderr
- Since API version 1.2, the auth configuration is now handled client
  side, so the client has to send the authConfig as POST in
  /images/(name)/push

2. Versions
===========

The current version of the API is 1.7

Calling /images/<name>/insert is the same as calling
/v1.7/images/<name>/insert

You can still call an old version of the api using
/v1.0/images/<name>/insert

v1.7
****

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.7`

What's new
----------

.. http:get:: /images/json

   The format of the json returned from this uri changed.  Instead of an entry
   for each repo/tag on an image, each image is only represented once, with a
   nested attribute indicating the repo/tags that apply to that image.

   Instead of:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      [
        {
          "VirtualSize": 131506275,
          "Size": 131506275,
          "Created": 1365714795,
          "Id": "8dbd9e392a964056420e5d58ca5cc376ef18e2de93b5cc90e868a1bbc8318c1c",
          "Tag": "12.04",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        },
        {
          "VirtualSize": 131506275,
          "Size": 131506275,
          "Created": 1365714795,
          "Id": "8dbd9e392a964056420e5d58ca5cc376ef18e2de93b5cc90e868a1bbc8318c1c",
          "Tag": "latest",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        },
        {
          "VirtualSize": 131506275,
          "Size": 131506275,
          "Created": 1365714795,
          "Id": "8dbd9e392a964056420e5d58ca5cc376ef18e2de93b5cc90e868a1bbc8318c1c",
          "Tag": "precise",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        },
        {
          "VirtualSize": 180116135,
          "Size": 24653,
          "Created": 1364102658,
          "Id": "b750fe79269d2ec9a3c593ef05b4332b1d1a02a62b4accb2c21d589ff2f5f2dc",
          "Tag": "12.10",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        },
        {
          "VirtualSize": 180116135,
          "Size": 24653,
          "Created": 1364102658,
          "Id": "b750fe79269d2ec9a3c593ef05b4332b1d1a02a62b4accb2c21d589ff2f5f2dc",
          "Tag": "quantal",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        }
      ]

   The returned json looks like this:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json
      
      [
        {
           "RepoTag": [
             "ubuntu:12.04",
             "ubuntu:precise",
             "ubuntu:latest"
           ],
           "Id": "8dbd9e392a964056420e5d58ca5cc376ef18e2de93b5cc90e868a1bbc8318c1c",
           "Created": 1365714795,
           "Size": 131506275,
           "VirtualSize": 131506275
        },
        {
           "RepoTag": [
             "ubuntu:12.10",
             "ubuntu:quantal"
           ],
           "ParentId": "27cf784147099545",
           "Id": "b750fe79269d2ec9a3c593ef05b4332b1d1a02a62b4accb2c21d589ff2f5f2dc",
           "Created": 1364102658,
           "Size": 24653,
           "VirtualSize": 180116135
        }
      ]

.. http:get:: /images/viz

   This URI no longer exists.  The ``images -viz`` output is now generated in
   the client, using the ``/images/json`` data.

v1.6
****

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.6`

What's new
----------

.. http:post:: /containers/(id)/attach

   **New!** You can now split stderr from stdout. This is done by prefixing
   a header to each transmition. See :http:post:`/containers/(id)/attach`.
   The WebSocket attach is unchanged.
   Note that attach calls on the previous API version didn't change. Stdout and
   stderr are merged.


v1.5
****

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.5`

What's new
----------

.. http:post:: /images/create

   **New!** You can now pass registry credentials (via an AuthConfig object)
   through the `X-Registry-Auth` header

.. http:post:: /images/(name)/push

   **New!** The AuthConfig object now needs to be passed through 
   the `X-Registry-Auth` header

.. http:get:: /containers/json

   **New!** The format of the `Ports` entry has been changed to a list of
   dicts each containing `PublicPort`, `PrivatePort` and `Type` describing a
   port mapping.

v1.4
****

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.4`

What's new
----------

.. http:post:: /images/create

   **New!** When pulling a repo, all images are now downloaded in parallel.

.. http:get:: /containers/(id)/top

   **New!** You can now use ps args with docker top, like `docker top <container_id> aux`

.. http:get:: /events:

   **New!** Image's name added in the events

v1.3
****

docker v0.5.0 51f6c4a_

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.3`

What's new
----------

.. http:get:: /containers/(id)/top

   List the processes running inside a container.

.. http:get:: /events:

   **New!** Monitor docker's events via streaming or via polling

Builder (/build):

- Simplify the upload of the build context
- Simply stream a tarball instead of multipart upload with 4
  intermediary buffers
- Simpler, less memory usage, less disk usage and faster

.. Warning::

  The /build improvements are not reverse-compatible. Pre 1.3 clients
  will break on /build.

List containers (/containers/json):

- You can use size=1 to get the size of the containers

Start containers (/containers/<id>/start):

- You can now pass host-specific configuration (e.g. bind mounts) in
  the POST body for start calls

v1.2
****

docker v0.4.2 2e7649b_

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.2`

What's new
----------

The auth configuration is now handled by the client.

The client should send it's authConfig as POST on each call of
/images/(name)/push

.. http:get:: /auth 

  **Deprecated.**

.. http:post:: /auth 

  Only checks the configuration but doesn't store it on the server

  Deleting an image is now improved, will only untag the image if it
  has children and remove all the untagged parents if has any.

.. http:post:: /images/<name>/delete 

  Now returns a JSON structure with the list of images
  deleted/untagged.


v1.1
****

docker v0.4.0 a8ae398_

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.1`

What's new
----------

.. http:post:: /images/create
.. http:post:: /images/(name)/insert
.. http:post:: /images/(name)/push

   Uses json stream instead of HTML hijack, it looks like this:

        .. sourcecode:: http

           HTTP/1.1 200 OK
	   Content-Type: application/json

	   {"status":"Pushing..."}
	   {"status":"Pushing", "progress":"1/? (n/a)"}
	   {"error":"Invalid..."}
	   ...

v1.0
****

docker v0.3.4 8d73740_

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.0`

What's new
----------

Initial version


.. _a8ae398: https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/commit/a8ae398bf52e97148ee7bd0d5868de2e15bd297f
.. _8d73740: https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/commit/8d73740343778651c09160cde9661f5f387b36f4
.. _2e7649b: https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/commit/2e7649beda7c820793bd46766cbc2cfeace7b168
.. _51f6c4a: https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/commit/51f6c4a7372450d164c61e0054daf0223ddbd909

Commit message:

Make docker build return exit code of build step
If a command during build fails, `docker build` now returns with
the exit code of that command.

This makes it necessary to change the build api endpoint to
return a json object stream.
Upstream-commit: b04c6466cdc89a107879af7a22b0917006b38730
Component: engine

docs/sources/api/docker_remote_api.rst, after:

:title: Remote API
:description: API Documentation for Docker
:keywords: API, Docker, rcli, REST, documentation

.. COMMENT use http://pythonhosted.org/sphinxcontrib-httpdomain/ to
.. document the REST API.

=================
Docker Remote API
=================


1. Brief introduction
=====================

- The Remote API is replacing rcli
- By default the Docker daemon listens on unix:///var/run/docker.sock and the client must have root access to interact with the daemon
- If a group named *docker* exists on your system, docker will apply ownership of the socket to the group
- The API tends to be REST, but for some complex commands, like attach
  or pull, the HTTP connection is hijacked to transport stdout stdin
  and stderr
- Since API version 1.2, the auth configuration is now handled client
  side, so the client has to send the authConfig as POST in
  /images/(name)/push

2. Versions
===========

The current version of the API is 1.7

Calling /images/<name>/insert is the same as calling
/v1.7/images/<name>/insert

You can still call an old version of the api using
/v1.0/images/<name>/insert

v1.7
****

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.7`

What's new
----------

.. http:get:: /images/json

   The format of the json returned from this uri changed.  Instead of an entry
   for each repo/tag on an image, each image is only represented once, with a
   nested attribute indicating the repo/tags that apply to that image.

   Instead of:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      [
        {
          "VirtualSize": 131506275,
          "Size": 131506275,
          "Created": 1365714795,
          "Id": "8dbd9e392a964056420e5d58ca5cc376ef18e2de93b5cc90e868a1bbc8318c1c",
          "Tag": "12.04",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        },
        {
          "VirtualSize": 131506275,
          "Size": 131506275,
          "Created": 1365714795,
          "Id": "8dbd9e392a964056420e5d58ca5cc376ef18e2de93b5cc90e868a1bbc8318c1c",
          "Tag": "latest",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        },
        {
          "VirtualSize": 131506275,
          "Size": 131506275,
          "Created": 1365714795,
          "Id": "8dbd9e392a964056420e5d58ca5cc376ef18e2de93b5cc90e868a1bbc8318c1c",
          "Tag": "precise",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        },
        {
          "VirtualSize": 180116135,
          "Size": 24653,
          "Created": 1364102658,
          "Id": "b750fe79269d2ec9a3c593ef05b4332b1d1a02a62b4accb2c21d589ff2f5f2dc",
          "Tag": "12.10",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        },
        {
          "VirtualSize": 180116135,
          "Size": 24653,
          "Created": 1364102658,
          "Id": "b750fe79269d2ec9a3c593ef05b4332b1d1a02a62b4accb2c21d589ff2f5f2dc",
          "Tag": "quantal",
          "Repository": "ubuntu"
        }
      ]

   The returned json looks like this:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json
      
      [
        {
           "RepoTag": [
             "ubuntu:12.04",
             "ubuntu:precise",
             "ubuntu:latest"
           ],
           "Id": "8dbd9e392a964056420e5d58ca5cc376ef18e2de93b5cc90e868a1bbc8318c1c",
           "Created": 1365714795,
           "Size": 131506275,
           "VirtualSize": 131506275
        },
        {
           "RepoTag": [
             "ubuntu:12.10",
             "ubuntu:quantal"
           ],
           "ParentId": "27cf784147099545",
           "Id": "b750fe79269d2ec9a3c593ef05b4332b1d1a02a62b4accb2c21d589ff2f5f2dc",
           "Created": 1364102658,
           "Size": 24653,
           "VirtualSize": 180116135
        }
      ]

.. http:get:: /images/viz

   This URI no longer exists.  The ``images -viz`` output is now generated in
   the client, using the ``/images/json`` data.

.. http:post:: /build

   **New!** This endpoint now returns build status as json stream. In case
   of a build error, it returns the exit status of the failed command.

v1.6
****

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.6`

What's new
----------

.. http:post:: /containers/(id)/attach

   **New!** You can now split stderr from stdout. This is done by prefixing
   a header to each transmition. See :http:post:`/containers/(id)/attach`.
   The WebSocket attach is unchanged.
   Note that attach calls on the previous API version didn't change. Stdout and
   stderr are merged.


v1.5
****

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.5`

What's new
----------

.. http:post:: /images/create

   **New!** You can now pass registry credentials (via an AuthConfig object)
   through the `X-Registry-Auth` header

.. http:post:: /images/(name)/push

   **New!** The AuthConfig object now needs to be passed through 
   the `X-Registry-Auth` header

.. http:get:: /containers/json

   **New!** The format of the `Ports` entry has been changed to a list of
   dicts each containing `PublicPort`, `PrivatePort` and `Type` describing a
   port mapping.

v1.4
****

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.4`

What's new
----------

.. http:post:: /images/create

   **New!** When pulling a repo, all images are now downloaded in parallel.

.. http:get:: /containers/(id)/top

   **New!** You can now use ps args with docker top, like `docker top <container_id> aux`

.. http:get:: /events:

   **New!** Image's name added in the events

v1.3
****

docker v0.5.0 51f6c4a_

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.3`

What's new
----------

.. http:get:: /containers/(id)/top

   List the processes running inside a container.

.. http:get:: /events:

   **New!** Monitor docker's events via streaming or via polling

Builder (/build):

- Simplify the upload of the build context
- Simply stream a tarball instead of multipart upload with 4
  intermediary buffers
- Simpler, less memory usage, less disk usage and faster

.. Warning::

  The /build improvements are not reverse-compatible. Pre 1.3 clients
  will break on /build.

List containers (/containers/json):

- You can use size=1 to get the size of the containers

Start containers (/containers/<id>/start):

- You can now pass host-specific configuration (e.g. bind mounts) in
  the POST body for start calls

v1.2
****

docker v0.4.2 2e7649b_

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.2`

What's new
----------

The auth configuration is now handled by the client.

The client should send it's authConfig as POST on each call of
/images/(name)/push

.. http:get:: /auth 

  **Deprecated.**

.. http:post:: /auth 

  Only checks the configuration but doesn't store it on the server

  Deleting an image is now improved, will only untag the image if it
  has children and remove all the untagged parents if has any.

.. http:post:: /images/<name>/delete 

  Now returns a JSON structure with the list of images
  deleted/untagged.


v1.1
****

docker v0.4.0 a8ae398_

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.1`

What's new
----------

.. http:post:: /images/create
.. http:post:: /images/(name)/insert
.. http:post:: /images/(name)/push

   Uses json stream instead of HTML hijack, it looks like this:

        .. sourcecode:: http

           HTTP/1.1 200 OK
	   Content-Type: application/json

	   {"status":"Pushing..."}
	   {"status":"Pushing", "progress":"1/? (n/a)"}
	   {"error":"Invalid..."}
	   ...

v1.0
****

docker v0.3.4 8d73740_

Full Documentation
------------------

:doc:`docker_remote_api_v1.0`

What's new
----------

Initial version


.. _a8ae398: https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/commit/a8ae398bf52e97148ee7bd0d5868de2e15bd297f
.. _8d73740: https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/commit/8d73740343778651c09160cde9661f5f387b36f4
.. _2e7649b: https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/commit/2e7649beda7c820793bd46766cbc2cfeace7b168
.. _51f6c4a: https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/commit/51f6c4a7372450d164c61e0054daf0223ddbd909
