docs/sources/api/remote_api_client_libraries.rst, before:

:title: Registry API
:description: Various client libraries available to use with the Docker remote API
:keywords: API, Docker, index, registry, REST, documentation, clients, Python, Ruby, Javascript, Erlang, Go


==================================
Docker Remote API Client Libraries
==================================

These libraries have not been tested by the Docker Maintainers for
compatibility. Please file issues with the library owners.  If you
find more library implementations, please list them in Docker doc bugs
and we will add the libraries here.

+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Language/Framework   | Name           | Repository                                 |
+======================+================+============================================+
| Python               | docker-py      | https://github.com/dotcloud/docker-py      |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Ruby                 | docker-client  | https://github.com/geku/docker-client      |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Ruby                 | docker-api     | https://github.com/swipely/docker-api      |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Javascript (NodeJS)  | docker.io      | https://github.com/appersonlabs/docker.io  |
|                      |                | Install via NPM: `npm install docker.io`   |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Javascript           | docker-js      | https://github.com/dgoujard/docker-js      |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Javascript (Angular) | dockerui       | https://github.com/crosbymichael/dockerui  |
| **WebUI**            |                |                                            |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Java                 | docker-java    | https://github.com/kpelykh/docker-java     |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Erlang               | erldocker      | https://github.com/proger/erldocker        |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Go                   | go-dockerclient| https://github.com/fsouza/go-dockerclient  |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Fix #2115 Clean AUFS references. Also fixes some links to client libraries and mongo example. Upstream-commit: f4c17a202b5f6021d48c3cb3342c37607b509630 Component: engine

docs/sources/api/remote_api_client_libraries.rst, after:

:title: Registry API
:description: Various client libraries available to use with the Docker remote API
:keywords: API, Docker, index, registry, REST, documentation, clients, Python, Ruby, Javascript, Erlang, Go


.. _remote_api_client_libs:

==================================
Docker Remote API Client Libraries
==================================

These libraries have not been tested by the Docker Maintainers for
compatibility with the :doc:`docker_remote_api`. Please file issues
with the library owners.  If you find more library implementations,
please list them in `Docker doc issues
<https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/issues?direction=desc&labels=doc&sort=updated&state=open>`_
or make a pull request, and we will add the libraries here.

+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Language/Framework   | Name           | Repository                                 |
+======================+================+============================================+
| Python               | docker-py      | https://github.com/dotcloud/docker-py      |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Ruby                 | docker-client  | https://github.com/geku/docker-client      |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Ruby                 | docker-api     | https://github.com/swipely/docker-api      |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Javascript (NodeJS)  | docker.io      | https://github.com/appersonlabs/docker.io  |
|                      |                | Install via NPM: `npm install docker.io`   |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Javascript           | docker-js      | https://github.com/dgoujard/docker-js      |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Javascript (Angular) | dockerui       | https://github.com/crosbymichael/dockerui  |
| **WebUI**            |                |                                            |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Java                 | docker-java    | https://github.com/kpelykh/docker-java     |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Erlang               | erldocker      | https://github.com/proger/erldocker        |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Go                   | go-dockerclient| https://github.com/fsouza/go-dockerclient  |
+----------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------+
