docs/sources/installation/archlinux.rst, before:

:title: Installation on Arch Linux
:description: Docker installation on Arch Linux.
:keywords: arch linux, virtualization, docker, documentation, installation

.. _arch_linux:

Arch Linux
==========

.. include:: install_header.inc

.. include:: install_unofficial.inc

Installing on Arch Linux is not officially supported but can be handled via 
one of the following AUR packages:

* `lxc-docker <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/lxc-docker/>`_
* `lxc-docker-git <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/lxc-docker-git/>`_
* `lxc-docker-nightly <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/lxc-docker-nightly/>`_

The lxc-docker package will install the latest tagged version of docker. 
The lxc-docker-git package will build from the current master branch.
The lxc-docker-nightly package will install the latest build.

Dependencies
------------

Docker depends on several packages which are specified as dependencies in
the AUR packages. The core dependencies are:

* bridge-utils
* device-mapper
* iproute2
* lxc


Installation
------------

The instructions here assume **yaourt** is installed.  See 
`Arch User Repository <https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository#Installing_packages>`_
for information on building and installing packages from the AUR if you have not
done so before.

::

    yaourt -S lxc-docker


Starting Docker
---------------

There is a systemd service unit created for docker.  To start the docker service:

::

    sudo systemctl start docker


To start on system boot:

::

    sudo systemctl enable docker
    
Network Configuration
---------------------

IPv4 packet forwarding is disabled by default on Arch, so internet access from inside
the container may not work.

To enable the forwarding, run as root on the host system:

::

    sysctl net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
    
And, to make it persistent across reboots, enable it on the host's **/etc/sysctl.d/docker.conf**:

::

    net.ipv4.ip_forward=1

Commit message:

Update archlinux.rst as packages have changed
The docker package has been added into the Arch Linux community repo, this means that the package names and installation instructions have slightly changed.
Upstream-commit: 02ef8ec3ca1a9b16b905b671ade74cf24d11bb3a
Component: engine

docs/sources/installation/archlinux.rst, after:

:title: Installation on Arch Linux
:description: Docker installation on Arch Linux.
:keywords: arch linux, virtualization, docker, documentation, installation

.. _arch_linux:

Arch Linux
==========

.. include:: install_header.inc

.. include:: install_unofficial.inc

Installing on Arch Linux is not officially supported but can be handled via 
the package in community:

* `docker <https://www.archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/docker/>`_

or the following AUR package:

* `docker-git <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/docker-git/>`_

The docker package will install the latest tagged version of docker. 
The docker-git package will build from the current master branch.

Dependencies
------------

Docker depends on several packages which are specified as dependencies in
the packages. The core dependencies are:

* bridge-utils
* device-mapper
* iproute2
* lxc


Installation
------------

For the normal package a simple
::

    pacman -S docker
    
is all that is needed.

For the AUR package execute:
::

    yaourt -S lxc-docker-git
    
The instructions here assume **yaourt** is installed.  See 
`Arch User Repository <https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository#Installing_packages>`_
for information on building and installing packages from the AUR if you have not
done so before.


Starting Docker
---------------

There is a systemd service unit created for docker.  To start the docker service:

::

    sudo systemctl start docker


To start on system boot:

::

    sudo systemctl enable docker
    
Network Configuration
---------------------

IPv4 packet forwarding is disabled by default on Arch, so internet access from inside
the container may not work.

To enable the forwarding, run as root on the host system:

::

    sysctl net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
    
And, to make it persistent across reboots, enable it on the host's **/etc/sysctl.d/docker.conf**:

::

    net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
