docs/sources/installation/fedora.rst, before:

:title: Requirements and Installation on Fedora
:description: Please note this project is currently under heavy development. It should not be used in production.
:keywords: Docker, Docker documentation, fedora, requirements, virtualbox, vagrant, git, ssh, putty, cygwin, linux

.. _fedora:

Fedora
======

.. include:: install_header.inc

.. include:: install_unofficial.inc

Docker is available in **Fedora 19 and later**. Please note that due to the
current Docker limitations Docker is able to run only on the **64 bit**
architecture.

Installation
------------

Install the ``docker-io`` package which will install Docker on our host.

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo yum -y install docker-io

   # to keep docker-io up to date
   sudo yum -y update docker-io

Now that it's installed, let's start the Docker daemon.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo systemctl start docker

If we want Docker to start at boot, we should also:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo systemctl enable docker

Now let's verify that Docker is working.

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo docker run -i -t mattdm/fedora /bin/bash

**Done!**, now continue with the :ref:`hello_world` example.

Commit message:

separate block for yum update docker
Signed-off-by: Lokesh Mandvekar <lsm5@redhat.com>
Upstream-commit: 7ab4f37d6084c98e1f725be4cc88ea76bf952eb7
Component: engine

docs/sources/installation/fedora.rst, after:

:title: Requirements and Installation on Fedora
:description: Please note this project is currently under heavy development. It should not be used in production.
:keywords: Docker, Docker documentation, fedora, requirements, virtualbox, vagrant, git, ssh, putty, cygwin, linux

.. _fedora:

Fedora
======

.. include:: install_header.inc

.. include:: install_unofficial.inc

Docker is available in **Fedora 19 and later**. Please note that due to the
current Docker limitations Docker is able to run only on the **64 bit**
architecture.

Installation
------------

Install the ``docker-io`` package which will install Docker on our host.

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo yum -y install docker-io

To update the ``docker-io`` package

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo yum -y update docker-io

Now that it's installed, let's start the Docker daemon.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo systemctl start docker

If we want Docker to start at boot, we should also:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo systemctl enable docker

Now let's verify that Docker is working.

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo docker run -i -t mattdm/fedora /bin/bash

**Done!**, now continue with the :ref:`hello_world` example.
