docs/sources/installation/vagrant.rst, before:

:title: Using Vagrant (Mac, Linux)
:description: This guide will setup a new virtualbox virtual machine with docker installed on your computer.
:keywords: Docker, Docker documentation, virtualbox, vagrant, git, ssh, putty, cygwin

.. _install_using_vagrant:

Using Vagrant (Mac, Linux)
==========================

This guide will setup a new virtualbox virtual machine with docker installed on your computer. This works on most operating
systems, including MacOX, Windows, Linux, FreeBSD and others. If you can install these and have at least 400Mb RAM
to spare you should be good.


Install Vagrant and Virtualbox
------------------------------

1. Install virtualbox from https://www.virtualbox.org/ (or use your package manager)
2. Install vagrant from http://www.vagrantup.com/ (or use your package manager)
3. Install git if you had not installed it before, check if it is installed by running
   ``git`` in a terminal window


Spin it up
----------

1. Fetch the docker sources (this includes the Vagrantfile for machine setup).

   .. code-block:: bash

      git clone https://github.com/dotcloud/docker.git

2. Run vagrant from the sources directory

   .. code-block:: bash

      vagrant up

   Vagrant will:

   * Download the 'official' Precise64 base ubuntu virtual machine image from vagrantup.com
   * Boot this image in virtualbox
   * Add the `Docker PPA sources <https://launchpad.net/~dotcloud/+archive/lxc-docker>`_ to /etc/apt/sources.lst
   * Update your sources
   * Install lxc-docker

   You now have a Ubuntu Virtual Machine running with docker pre-installed.

Connect
-------

To access the VM and use Docker, Run ``vagrant ssh`` from the same directory as where you ran
``vagrant up``. Vagrant will connect you to the correct VM.

.. code-block:: bash

   vagrant ssh

Run
-----

Now you are in the VM, run docker

.. code-block:: bash

   docker


Continue with the :ref:`hello_world` example.

Commit message:

Added line on top of ubuntulinux announcing change in 0.6
Added lines on top of vagrant installs
Upstream-commit: 091fb892948abee1ad5451ee6c9d7dd540d88780
Component: engine

docs/sources/installation/vagrant.rst, after:

:title: Using Vagrant (Mac, Linux)
:description: This guide will setup a new virtualbox virtual machine with docker installed on your computer.
:keywords: Docker, Docker documentation, virtualbox, vagrant, git, ssh, putty, cygwin

.. _install_using_vagrant:

**Vagrant installation is temporarily out of date, it will be updated for 0.6 soon.**

Using Vagrant (Mac, Linux)
==========================

This guide will setup a new virtualbox virtual machine with docker installed on your computer. This works on most operating
systems, including MacOX, Windows, Linux, FreeBSD and others. If you can install these and have at least 400Mb RAM
to spare you should be good.


Install Vagrant and Virtualbox
------------------------------

1. Install virtualbox from https://www.virtualbox.org/ (or use your package manager)
2. Install vagrant from http://www.vagrantup.com/ (or use your package manager)
3. Install git if you had not installed it before, check if it is installed by running
   ``git`` in a terminal window


Spin it up
----------

1. Fetch the docker sources (this includes the Vagrantfile for machine setup).

   .. code-block:: bash

      git clone https://github.com/dotcloud/docker.git

2. Run vagrant from the sources directory

   .. code-block:: bash

      vagrant up

   Vagrant will:

   * Download the 'official' Precise64 base ubuntu virtual machine image from vagrantup.com
   * Boot this image in virtualbox
   * Add the `Docker PPA sources <https://launchpad.net/~dotcloud/+archive/lxc-docker>`_ to /etc/apt/sources.lst
   * Update your sources
   * Install lxc-docker

   You now have a Ubuntu Virtual Machine running with docker pre-installed.

Connect
-------

To access the VM and use Docker, Run ``vagrant ssh`` from the same directory as where you ran
``vagrant up``. Vagrant will connect you to the correct VM.

.. code-block:: bash

   vagrant ssh

Run
-----

Now you are in the VM, run docker

.. code-block:: bash

   docker


Continue with the :ref:`hello_world` example.
