docs/sources/use/host_integration.rst, before:

:title: Host Integration
:description: How to generate scripts for upstart, systemd, etc.
:keywords: systemd, upstart, supervisor, docker, documentation, host integration



Host Integration
================

You can use your Docker containers with process managers like ``upstart``,
``systemd`` and ``supervisor``.

Introduction
------------

If you want a process manager to manage your containers you will need to run
the docker daemon with the ``-r=false`` so that docker will not automatically 
restart your containers when the host is restarted.  

When you have finished setting up your image and are happy with your
running container, you may want to use a process manager to manage
it.  When your run ``docker start -a`` docker will automatically attach 
to the process and forward all signals so that the process manager can 
detect when a container stops and correctly restart it.  

Here are a few sample scripts for systemd and upstart to integrate with docker.


Sample Upstart Script
---------------------

In this example we've already created a container to run Redis with an id of
0a7e070b698b.  To create an upstart script for our container, we create a file
named ``/etc/init/redis.conf`` and place the following into it:

.. code-block:: bash

   description "Redis container"
   author "Me"
   start on filesystem and started lxc-net and started docker
   stop on runlevel [!2345]
   respawn
   script
     # Wait for docker to finish starting up first.
     FILE=/var/run/docker.sock
     while [ ! -e $FILE ] ; do
       inotifywait -t 2 -e create $(dirname $FILE)
     done
     /usr/bin/docker start -a 0a7e070b698b
   end script

Next, we have to edit the docker upstart script (``/etc/init/docker.conf``)
so that we run docker with ``-r=false``.  In this example, we also ensure
that docker will start running before *redis* is started.

.. code-block:: bash

   description "Docker daemon"

   start on filesystem and started lxc-net
   start on (starting redis)
   stop on runlevel [!2345]

   respawn

   script
   	/usr/bin/docker -d -r=false
   end script


Sample systemd Script
---------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    [Unit]
    Description=Redis container
    Author=Me
    After=docker.service

    [Service]
    Restart=always
    ExecStart=/usr/bin/docker start -a 0a7e070b698b
    ExecStop=/usr/bin/docker stop -t 2 0a7e070b698b

    [Install]
    WantedBy=local.target

Commit message:

Simplify the upstart example in host_integration.rst
Taking some pointers from @tianon on my pull request #2685.
Upstream-commit: 76ee860ece15f8a7738c503fdd73f124f0ef1f4b
Component: engine

docs/sources/use/host_integration.rst, after:

:title: Host Integration
:description: How to generate scripts for upstart, systemd, etc.
:keywords: systemd, upstart, supervisor, docker, documentation, host integration



Host Integration
================

You can use your Docker containers with process managers like ``upstart``,
``systemd`` and ``supervisor``.

Introduction
------------

If you want a process manager to manage your containers you will need to run
the docker daemon with the ``-r=false`` so that docker will not automatically 
restart your containers when the host is restarted.  

When you have finished setting up your image and are happy with your
running container, you may want to use a process manager to manage
it.  When your run ``docker start -a`` docker will automatically attach 
to the process and forward all signals so that the process manager can 
detect when a container stops and correctly restart it.  

Here are a few sample scripts for systemd and upstart to integrate with docker.


Sample Upstart Script
---------------------

In this example we've already created a container to run Redis with an id of
0a7e070b698b.  To create an upstart script for our container, we create a file
named ``/etc/init/redis.conf`` and place the following into it:

.. code-block:: bash

   description "Redis container"
   author "Me"
   start on filesystem and started docker
   stop on runlevel [!2345]
   respawn
   script
     # Wait for docker to finish starting up first.
     FILE=/var/run/docker.sock
     while [ ! -e $FILE ] ; do
       inotifywait -t 2 -e create $(dirname $FILE)
     done
     /usr/bin/docker start -a 0a7e070b698b
   end script

Next, we have to configure docker so that it's run with the option ``-r=false``.
Run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ sudo sh -c 'echo DOCKER_OPTS="-r=false" > /etc/default/docker'


Sample systemd Script
---------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    [Unit]
    Description=Redis container
    Author=Me
    After=docker.service

    [Service]
    Restart=always
    ExecStart=/usr/bin/docker start -a 0a7e070b698b
    ExecStop=/usr/bin/docker stop -t 2 0a7e070b698b

    [Install]
    WantedBy=local.target
