docs/README.md, before:

Docker documentation and website
================================

Documentation
-------------
This is your definite place to contribute to the docker documentation. The documentation is generated from the
.rst files under sources.

The folder also contains the other files to create the http://docker.io website, but you can generally ignore
most of those.


Installation
------------

* Work in your own fork of the code, we accept pull requests.
* Install sphinx: `pip install sphinx`
    * Mac OS X: `[sudo] pip-2.7 install sphinx`)
* Install sphinx httpdomain contrib package: `pip install sphinxcontrib-httpdomain`
    * Mac OS X: `[sudo] pip-2.7 install sphinxcontrib-httpdomain`
* If pip is not available you can probably install it using your favorite package manager as **python-pip**

Usage
-----
* Change the `.rst` files with your favorite editor to your liking.
* Run `make docs` to clean up old files and generate new ones.
* Your static website can now be found in the `_build` directory.
* To preview what you have generated run `make server` and open <http://localhost:8000/> in your favorite browser.

Working using GitHub's file editor
----------------------------------
Alternatively, for small changes and typo's you might want to use GitHub's built in file editor. It allows
you to preview your changes right online. Just be carefull not to create many commits.

Images
------
When you need to add images, try to make them as small as possible (e.g. as gif).


Notes
-----
* For the template the css is compiled from less. When changes are needed they can be compiled using
lessc ``lessc main.less`` or watched using watch-lessc ``watch-lessc -i main.less -o main.css``


Guides on using sphinx
----------------------
* To make links to certain pages create a link target like so:

  ```
    .. _hello_world:

    Hello world
    ===========

    This is.. (etc.)
  ```

  The ``_hello_world:`` will make it possible to link to this position (page and marker) from all other pages.

* Notes, warnings and alarms

  ```
    # a note (use when something is important)
    .. note::

    # a warning (orange)
    .. warning::

    # danger (red, use sparsely)
    .. danger::

* Code examples

  Start without $, so it's easy to copy and paste.

Manpages
--------

* To make the manpages, simply run 'make man'. Pleae note there is a bug in spinx 1.1.3 which makes this fail.
Upgrade to the latest version of sphinx.
* Then preview the manpage by running `man _build/man/docker.1`, where _build/man/docker.1 is the path to the generated
manfile

The manpages are also autogenerated by our hosted readthedocs here: http://docs-docker.dotcloud.com/projects/docker/downloads/

Commit message:

Some more improvements on the docs readme. Removed references to website. Upstream-commit: ad3b091d535cde5544ec3c11da4cf8d9b278a325 Component: engine

docs/README.md, after:

Docker Documentation
====================

Documentation
-------------
This is your definite place to contribute to the docker documentation. After each push to master the documentation
is automatically generated and made available on [docs.docker.io](http://docs.docker.io)

Each of the .rst files under sources reflects a page on the documentation. 

Installation
------------

* Work in your own fork of the code, we accept pull requests.
* Install sphinx: `pip install sphinx`
    * Mac OS X: `[sudo] pip-2.7 install sphinx`)
* Install sphinx httpdomain contrib package: `pip install sphinxcontrib-httpdomain`
    * Mac OS X: `[sudo] pip-2.7 install sphinxcontrib-httpdomain`
* If pip is not available you can probably install it using your favorite package manager as **python-pip**

Usage
-----
* Change the `.rst` files with your favorite editor to your liking.
* Run `make docs` to clean up old files and generate new ones.
* Your static website can now be found in the `_build` directory.
* To preview what you have generated run `make server` and open <http://localhost:8000/> in your favorite browser.

Working using GitHub's file editor
----------------------------------
Alternatively, for small changes and typo's you might want to use GitHub's built in file editor. It allows
you to preview your changes right online. Just be carefull not to create many commits.

Images
------
When you need to add images, try to make them as small as possible (e.g. as gif).

Notes
-----
* For the template the css is compiled from less. When changes are needed they can be compiled using
lessc ``lessc main.less`` or watched using watch-lessc ``watch-lessc -i main.less -o main.css``

Guides on using sphinx
----------------------
* To make links to certain pages create a link target like so:

  ```
    .. _hello_world:

    Hello world
    ===========

    This is.. (etc.)
  ```

  The ``_hello_world:`` will make it possible to link to this position (page and marker) from all other pages.

* Notes, warnings and alarms

  ```
    # a note (use when something is important)
    .. note::

    # a warning (orange)
    .. warning::

    # danger (red, use sparsely)
    .. danger::

* Code examples

  Start without $, so it's easy to copy and paste.

Manpages
--------

* To make the manpages, simply run 'make man'. Please note there is a bug in spinx 1.1.3 which makes this fail.
Upgrade to the latest version of sphinx.
* Then preview the manpage by running `man _build/man/docker.1`, where _build/man/docker.1 is the path to the generated
manfile
* The manpages are also autogenerated by our hosted readthedocs here: http://docs-docker.dotcloud.com/projects/docker/downloads/
